hey this is fresh tell Walker reminding
you to mind your decisions here's a
problem I received by email about two
years ago if a B C and D are positive
integers with a sum of 63 what is the
maximum value of a B plus BC plus CD I
did some research and the problem traces
back to the Australian intermediate
Olympiad in 2013 this is a test for
talented students who are in the years
of 7 through 10 which I believe is the
ages of 11 through 15 the test consists
of 4 hours to solve 10 problems and no
calculators are allowed and remember
students haven't taken calculus yet so
limit yourself to solving this problem
using geometry and algebra I'll admit
it's a very hard problem I wasn't able
to solve it if you'd like to give it a
try pause the video right now and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
[Music]
so how are we even supposed to maximize
the quantity a B plus BC plus CD it
seems like such an abstract thing why
would anyone want to maximize this to
get a better sense of what this sum is
let's use an area model will construct
rectangles whose areas are each of these
terms
let's first construct a rectangle whose
areas a B we have one length of a and a
width of B this rectangle will have an
area of a B to get BC we add a length of
C and this rectangle have an area of BC
to get C D we add a width of D and this
rectangle will be an area of C D now
just for fun let's complete this
rectangle this final rectangle here will
have an area of AD
what the area model shows us is that a B
plus BC plus C D is the sum of the blue
areas and that will be the area of the
entire rectangle which has sides a plus
C and B plus D minus the small rectangle
ad we thus get the following algebraic
identity how is that going to help us
well to maximize the blue areas we can
equivalently maximize the area of this
rectangle - ad we can then use some
geometric insight for a fixed length and
width the sum of the blue areas is
maximum if a is as small as possible all
of the variables have to be positive
integers so the smallest positive
integer will be a is equal to one let's
visualize why this is true now similarly
for a fixed length and width the sum of
the blue areas is maximum if D is as
small as possible so we need D to be the
smallest positive integer which is one
here's a visualization of that we
therefore have translated the problem
into something a little more manageable
we have a maximization problem with two
variables C and B we can further
simplify this
recall that the sum of all the very
Abel's a 63 we deduced that a and D need
to be equal to one and this means that B
plus C have to be equal to 61 or B is
equal to 61 minus C we can substitute
that back into our original expression
and we end up with an optimization
problem in just one variable C we can
then expand this binomial and simplify
to get that we need to optimize a
quadratic equation how can we solve for
the maximum value of this expression
we'll use some more geometry in a
parabola with an equation alpha x
squared plus beta X plus gamma is equal
to 0 we know that its maximum and
minimum will be at its vertex and its
vertex happens when X is equal to
negative beta over 2 alpha and alpha
cannot be equal to 0 if we use this
formula for the expression we're trying
to maximize we end up that C needs to be
equal to negative 61 over negative 2 and
this simplifies to be thirty point five
but we're not done yet
remember that C has to be a positive
integer so we'll try the closest integer
values of C is equal to 30 and C is
equal to 31 we also want the maximum
value so let's calculate this remarkably
in either case we get the maximum value
is equal to 991 and that's our answer
so what seemed like an impossible
problem turns out to be something we can
understand through geometry incredible
thanks for watching and making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]